exercises/16-troubleshooting-worker-node/instructions.md, before:

# Exercise 16

In this exercise, you will learn how to troubleshooting the underlying issue of worker node. The cluster will contain of a single control plane node named `kube-control-plane`, and one worker node named `kube-worker-1`. The existing setup uses virtual machines (VMs) to emulate the cluster environment.

> **_NOTE:_** The file [vagrant-setup.md](../common/vagrant-setup.md) describes the setup instructions and commands for Vagrant and VirtualBox. If you do not want to use the Vagrant environment, you can use the Katacoda lab ["Troubleshooting a worker node"](https://learning.oreilly.com/scenarios/cka-prep-troubleshooting/9781492099222/).

1. Check the status of the nodes. Do you see an issue?
2. Shell into the node having an issue and identify the root cause.
3. Fix the root cause and restart the node.
4. The status of the previously failing node should say "Ready".

systemctl
journalctl

This was baffling stuff. Even following the steps was confusing. Many tools and documents were mentioned that were brand new to me. Return to

Commit message:

feat: 16 - clarifying linux, kernel, OS topics

exercises/16-troubleshooting-worker-node/instructions.md, after:

# Exercise 16

In this exercise, you will learn how to troubleshooting the underlying issue of worker node. The cluster will contain of a single control plane node named `kube-control-plane`, and one worker node named `kube-worker-1`. The existing setup uses virtual machines (VMs) to emulate the cluster environment.

> **_NOTE:_** The file [vagrant-setup.md](../common/vagrant-setup.md) describes the setup instructions and commands for Vagrant and VirtualBox. If you do not want to use the Vagrant environment, you can use the Katacoda lab ["Troubleshooting a worker node"](https://learning.oreilly.com/scenarios/cka-prep-troubleshooting/9781492099222/).

1. Check the status of the nodes. Do you see an issue?
2. Shell into the node having an issue and identify the root cause.
3. Fix the root cause and restart the node.
4. The status of the previously failing node should say "Ready".

systemctl - this looks like a task manager for linux in the command line
sysctl - which is completely different to the above. It is used to modify kernel parameters at runtime. The kernel is the core of an operating system. A graphical interface might go on top of the kernel
journalctl - this is how you query the systemd journal

This was baffling stuff. Even following the steps was confusing. Many tools and documents were mentioned that were brand new to me. Return to
