README.md, before:

# 1, 2, 3, 4 are new. Do first
# 12, 13 are challenging but from CKAD. Do third. Might be able to pass exam without doing these. But I need to understand and over this material eventually
# 14, 15, 16, 17 are troubleshooting, don't know how difficult they are. Do second
# 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 are largely CKAD

Return to 1 - couldn't get a user authenticated with a minikube cluster to allow me to engage with the RBAC exercise. RBAC itself looks straightforward

# Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) Crash Course

The ability to manage, troubleshoot and monitor a Kubernetes cluster is in high demand. In response, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) developed the [Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) certification](https://www.cncf.io/certification/cka/) to establish a administrator's credibility and value in the job market to confidently work in a Kubernetes environment. The exam is different from the typical multi-choice format of other certifications. It’s completely performance-based and requires deep knowledge of the tasks at hand under immense time pressure. Are you ready to pass the test on the first go?

This practical course is designed to walk you through all the topics covered in the exam to fully prepare to pass the certification exam. The trainer, [CKA](https://www.credly.com/badges/9a599e63-6155-422e-b169-8eaaed5369ab) and [CKAD](https://www.credly.com/badges/98ba0895-b669-47d5-8206-50b7223940e3), Benjamin Muschko, will also share his personal experience with preparing for all aspects of the exam.

## Prerequisites

All exercises in this repository practice a self-contained portion of the [CKA curriculum](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum). Please make sure to follow the [instructions](./prerequisites/instructions.md) for setting up your environment before joining the training.

## Exercises

All [exercises](./exercises) are numbered and live in dedicated directories starting with the name `exercise-`. You'll find instructions for each exercise in each folder. Solutions are available in the `solution` folder. Try to solve each exercise yourself before having a look at the solution.

## Additional Resources

* 📚 [O'Reilly: Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) Study Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/certified-kubernetes-administrator/9781098107215/)
* 📚 [O'Reilly: Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD) Study Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/certified-kubernetes-application/9781492083726/)
* 📚 [Manning: Acing the Certified Kubernetes Administrator Exam](https://www.manning.com/books/acing-the-certified-kubernetes-administrator-exam)
* 🎞️ [LinkedIn Learning: Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) Cert Prep: The Basics](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/certified-kubernetes-administrator-cka-cert-prep-the-basics)
* 🎞️ [KodeKloud: CKA Certification Course – Certified Kubernetes Administrator](https://kodekloud.com/p/certified-kubernetes-administrator-with-practice-tests)
* 🧪 [O'Reilly: Katacoda CKA Practice Labs](https://learning.oreilly.com/playlists/65351d22-34eb-4be3-9f35-d9c0b184449f/)
* 🧪 [Killer Shell: CKA Simulator](https://killer.sh/cka)
* 🧪 [Study4Exam: Certified Kubernetes Administrator Exam](https://www.study4exam.com/linux-foundation/info/cka)

Commit message:

feat: 4 done. Some things to memorise

README.md, after:

# 1, 2, 3, 4 are new. Do first
# 12, 13 are challenging but from CKAD. Do third. Might be able to pass exam without doing these. But I need to understand and over this material eventually
# 14, 15, 16, 17 are troubleshooting, don't know how difficult they are. Do second
# 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 are largely CKAD

Return to 1 - couldn't get a user authenticated with a minikube cluster to allow me to engage with the RBAC exercise. RBAC itself looks straightforward
1, 2, 3, 4 understood and reviewed. Need to practice and memorise a few things

# Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) Crash Course

The ability to manage, troubleshoot and monitor a Kubernetes cluster is in high demand. In response, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) developed the [Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) certification](https://www.cncf.io/certification/cka/) to establish a administrator's credibility and value in the job market to confidently work in a Kubernetes environment. The exam is different from the typical multi-choice format of other certifications. It’s completely performance-based and requires deep knowledge of the tasks at hand under immense time pressure. Are you ready to pass the test on the first go?

This practical course is designed to walk you through all the topics covered in the exam to fully prepare to pass the certification exam. The trainer, [CKA](https://www.credly.com/badges/9a599e63-6155-422e-b169-8eaaed5369ab) and [CKAD](https://www.credly.com/badges/98ba0895-b669-47d5-8206-50b7223940e3), Benjamin Muschko, will also share his personal experience with preparing for all aspects of the exam.

## Prerequisites

All exercises in this repository practice a self-contained portion of the [CKA curriculum](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum). Please make sure to follow the [instructions](./prerequisites/instructions.md) for setting up your environment before joining the training.

## Exercises

All [exercises](./exercises) are numbered and live in dedicated directories starting with the name `exercise-`. You'll find instructions for each exercise in each folder. Solutions are available in the `solution` folder. Try to solve each exercise yourself before having a look at the solution.

## Additional Resources

* 📚 [O'Reilly: Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) Study Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/certified-kubernetes-administrator/9781098107215/)
* 📚 [O'Reilly: Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD) Study Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/certified-kubernetes-application/9781492083726/)
* 📚 [Manning: Acing the Certified Kubernetes Administrator Exam](https://www.manning.com/books/acing-the-certified-kubernetes-administrator-exam)
* 🎞️ [LinkedIn Learning: Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) Cert Prep: The Basics](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/certified-kubernetes-administrator-cka-cert-prep-the-basics)
* 🎞️ [KodeKloud: CKA Certification Course – Certified Kubernetes Administrator](https://kodekloud.com/p/certified-kubernetes-administrator-with-practice-tests)
* 🧪 [O'Reilly: Katacoda CKA Practice Labs](https://learning.oreilly.com/playlists/65351d22-34eb-4be3-9f35-d9c0b184449f/)
* 🧪 [Killer Shell: CKA Simulator](https://killer.sh/cka)
* 🧪 [Study4Exam: Certified Kubernetes Administrator Exam](https://www.study4exam.com/linux-foundation/info/cka)
